[DOP-2330] - add KeyValueHwm,  KeyValueIntHwm classes (#71)
MobileTeleSystems/etl-entities: docs/hwm/key_value/index.rst

.. _key_value_hwm_classes:

KeyValue HWM
========

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: HWM classes
    :name: key_value_hwm_classes

    key_value_int_hwm

What is KeyValue HWM?
----------------------

The KeyValue High Water Mark (HWM) is a specialized class designed to manage and track incremental data changes in systems where data is stored or represented as key-value pairs, such as in message queues like Kafka.

Use Case
----------------------

> The ``KeyValueHWM`` class is particularly beneficial in scenarios where there is a need to `incrementally <https://onetl.readthedocs.io/en/0.10.0/strategy/incremental_strategy.html>`_ upload data in an ETL process.

Reviewer: Предлагаю вместо версии указать `stable`

> For instance, in typical ETL processes using `Spark with Kafka <https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/structured-streaming-kafka-integration.html>`_, data re-written entirely from all partitions in topics starting from **zero** offset. This approach can be inefficient, time-consuming and create duplicates in target. By leveraging the ``KeyValueIntHWM`` class, it becomes possible to track the last offset of data processed. This enables the ETL process to only write new data increments, significantly reducing the amount of data transferred during each run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, in typical ETL processes using `Spark with Kafka <https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/structured-streaming-kafka-integration.html>`_, data re-written entirely from all partitions in topics starting from **zero** offset. This approach can be inefficient, time-consuming and create duplicates in target. By leveraging the ``KeyValueIntHWM`` class, it becomes possible to track the last offset of data processed. This enables the ETL process to read only data appended to topic since previous run, significantly reducing the amount of data transferred during each run.
```

.. code:: python

    from etl_entities.hwm import KeyValueIntHWM

    initial_offsets = {
        0: 100,  # Partition 0 offset 100
        1: 150,  # Partition 1 offset 150
        2: 200,  # Partition 2 offset 200
    }

    # Creating an instance of KeyValueIntHWM with initial offsets
    hwm = KeyValueIntHWM(value=initial_offsets, ...)

    # Running some ETL process, which updates the HWM value after finish
    run_etl_process(hwm, new_batch_data)

    # HWM values after running the ETL process
    assert hwm.value == {0: 110, 1: 155, 2: 200}

This approach ensures that only new messages (i.e., those after the last recorded offset in each partition) are considered in the next ETL process. For Partition 0 and Partition 1, the new offsets (110 and 155, respectively) are stored in the HWM, while Partition 2 remains unchanged as there were no new messages.

Restrictions
------------

- **Non-Decreasing Values**: The ``KeyValueHWM`` class is designed to handle only non-decreasing values. During the update process, if the new offset provided for a given partition is less than the current offset, the value will not be updated.

> - **Incomplete Key Updates**: If a key is not included in new hwm value, its value remains unchanged. This is essential because keys in systems like Kafka (partitions) cannot be deleted, and their last known

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Incomplete Key Updates**: If a key is not included in new hwm value, its value remains unchanged. This is essential because keys in systems like Kafka (partitions) cannot be deleted, and their last known position is left intact.
```
